# WhatsApp's new private policy: Sharing user personal data with Facebook
In this document, I will discuss two articles about Whatsapp's newly introduced private policy that forces users accept the new terms and conditions to share their personal data with Facebook. I will present and discuss two opposing views on this recent matter.

## Article 1
In welivesecurity.com [WhatsApp updates privacy policy to enable sharing more data with Facebook] (https://www.welivesecurity.com/2021/01/07/whatsapp-updates-privacy-policy-share-user-data-facebook/) shows the new private policy WhatsApp users in many parts of the world have to agree to share some of their data with Facebook, WhatsApp's parent company. Users who will not agree to the new terms will need to stop using the app or delete their accounts. The three key points of the updates are how the app processes user data, how bysiness can use Facebook-hosted services with WhatsApp and how the app partners with Facebook to offer integration across Facebook's products.

WhatsApp claims that it allows users to connect their WhatsApp experience with other Facebook Company Products and improve ads and product epxreiences across the products. In addition, WhatsApp promises its security, safety and integrity across the Facebook Company Products. From Facebook Company's perspective, this idea may seem like a good idea that enable the company to create larger customer base of the Facebook Company Products and the products better for the users compared to competitors. In addition, it is a way for WhatsApp to understand its user more to provide customized offerings and advertisings.

Today, many people use social media and messaging applications as the primary tools to communicate with others. As app providers, it is vital to prioritize users' trust in storing and passing their personal data. They would not want their data to be shared somewhere else. WhatsApp may have forgotten to take into consideration how the users would feel about their privacy on the app. This may be seen as a disrespect for its users. Customers know that our activities online is not completely secured but a sudden change like this makes WhatsApp user feel uncomfortable about continue using the app and would rather find alternatives.

## Article 2
Contrary to the claims made by WhatsApp regarding their new privacy policy displayed on welivesecurity.com,[WhatsApp clarifies it’s not giving all your data to Facebook after surge in Signal and Telegram users] (https://www.theverge.com/2021/1/12/22226792/whatsapp-privacy-policy-response-signal-telegram-controversy-clarification) shows how Whatsapp users respond to it and WhatsApp's clarification regarding the update.

WhatsApp disclosed in mid January 2021 that WhatsApp is end-to-end encryption. The update has nothing to do with users' chats or profile data and 'instead the change is designed to outline how businesses who use WhatsApp for customer service may store logs of its chats on Facebook servers'. It claimed to protect and secure users' private messages: WhatsApp cannot see your private messages or hear your call and neither can Facebook, cannot see your shared location, WhatsApp groups remain private, and WhatsApp does not share your contacts with Facebook. WhatsApp users have the options to set their messages to dissapear and download their data.

Because of the controversy provokes from the new privacy policy introduction, WhatsApp annouced to push back the update scheduled for February 8, 2021 to May 15, 2021. Unsurprisingly, the clarification on the update still does not help the app to prevent its users from switching to other apps. Instead, the reputation of WhatsApp worsen. The number of WhatsApp downloads continue to decrease while its competitors like Signal and Telegram receive an increasing daily downloads. Currently, Signal has become one of the most downloaded apps on Andriod and iSO of more than 25 million new users in 72 hours. Telegram is ranked number 2 behind Signal on the App Sotre. Users no longer trust WhatsApp regardless the disclosure.

Migrating to Signal or Telegram are the more trustable options for users because of the transparency and security of users data. They would not have to worry about the transparency of the application. Such data-related issue shows that once user trust is destroyed, it is difficult to gain the trust back no matter how hard WhatsApp tried to clarify the misunderstanding. Personal data security and privacy are senstive matters. This issue had me reflect back to this course: Database Design. Professor Bloomberg asked the class to complete the consent form regarding the FERPA at the beginning of the course. Althogh there would not be secrets or any important information that cannot be shared, the consent form makes me feel good about the security of my data in this course either it is my submitted assignments on GitHub or chats on Slack. As for WhatsApp, it should pay closer attention to its users not the extra profits they make from using users' data. As an ex-WhatsApp frequent users, I also decided to delete WhatsApp and use Line instead.

